Week-2-Homework.md, before:

### Login screen

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/HscRliMl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/ZVBiKXql.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/k7USHKgl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/C3InaUHl.png" width="250" />

### Feed screen

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/dB4WrREl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/tQA52bkl.png" width="250"/>

### More screen (optional)

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/VDaH8mfl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/rEhaQzLl.png" width="250"/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/eEzyaGEl.png" width="250"/>

- Facebook login page
   - Tapping in the UITextField repositions the elements, as shown in the screenshots.
   - Tapping anywhere dismisses the keyboard
   - If email and password field are both blank, button should be disabled.
   - Password field should be secure with no autocorrection.
   - After tapping log in button, show the loading indicator in the button. After a 2 second delay, check the password.
      - If the password is 'password', transition to the next screen.
      - If the password is anything else, display the password error alert.
- Facebook feed
   - Navigation bar should have the search button and messages button.
   - Immediately after launch, display the loading indicator.
   - After 2 seconds, show the feed, which is a long image in a scrollable view.
   - Tapping the status button should show the compose view w/ the keyboard (optional)
   - Tapping a profile picture should push a profile page (optional)
- More
   - Add a scrollable view of the "More" page. (optional)
   - Upon tapping Log Out, return to the login screen. (optional)
   - Add a UIRefreshControl for a pull to refresh (optional)
   - After a pull to refresh, delay for 2 seconds before ending (optional)
      - Every other time, display an error message (optional)

### Assets

- Use your own assets or use the assets [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/97w8khawi2ihllt/week2_assets.zip).

### Quick References

- [[Using UIActivityIndicatorView]]
- [[Using UIAlertView and UIActionSheet]]
- [[Presenting Modal View Controllers]]
- [[Calling a method after a delay]]
- [[Using UIScrollView]]
- [[Working with the keyboard]]

### Submission instructions

- Submit all the items above by next Monday at 5pm.
- To submit your weekly coding assignment, email me your Github repository URL or email me a zip file of your project.

Commit message:

Update to the submission instructions to match what we discussed in class.

Week-2-Homework.md, after:

### Login screen

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/HscRliMl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/ZVBiKXql.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/k7USHKgl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/C3InaUHl.png" width="250" />

### Feed screen

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/dB4WrREl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/tQA52bkl.png" width="250"/>

### More screen (optional)

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/VDaH8mfl.png" width="250" />&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/rEhaQzLl.png" width="250"/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="http://i.imgur.com/eEzyaGEl.png" width="250"/>

- Facebook login page
   - Tapping in the UITextField repositions the elements, as shown in the screenshots.
   - Tapping anywhere dismisses the keyboard
   - If email and password field are both blank, button should be disabled.
   - Password field should be secure with no autocorrection.
   - After tapping log in button, show the loading indicator in the button. After a 2 second delay, check the password.
      - If the password is 'password', transition to the next screen.
      - If the password is anything else, display the password error alert.
- Facebook feed
   - Navigation bar should have the search button and messages button.
   - Immediately after launch, display the loading indicator.
   - After 2 seconds, show the feed, which is a long image in a scrollable view.
   - Tapping the status button should show the compose view w/ the keyboard (optional)
   - Tapping a profile picture should push a profile page (optional)
- More
   - Add a scrollable view of the "More" page. (optional)
   - Upon tapping Log Out, return to the login screen. (optional)
   - Add a UIRefreshControl for a pull to refresh (optional)
   - After a pull to refresh, delay for 2 seconds before ending (optional)
      - Every other time, display an error message (optional)

### Assets

- Use your own assets or use the assets [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/97w8khawi2ihllt/week2_assets.zip).

### Quick References

- [[Using UIActivityIndicatorView]]
- [[Using UIAlertView and UIActionSheet]]
- [[Presenting Modal View Controllers]]
- [[Calling a method after a delay]]
- [[Using UIScrollView]]
- [[Working with the keyboard]]

### Submission instructions

- Submit all the items above by next Tuesday at 10pm.
- To submit your weekly coding assignment, follow these [submission instructions](Submitting Assignments).
